src/pages/en/developers/api-registration/index.md, before:

---
title: API portal and registration
order: -12
---

## Digitransit API portal
Starting from 3.4.2023, the use of the Digitransit production APIs ([api.digitransit.fi](https://api.digitransit.fi), [cdn.digitransit.fi](https://cdn.digitransit.fi) and [digitransit-prod-cdn-origin.azureedge.net](https://digitransit-prod-cdn-origin.azureedge.net)) will require registration and use of API keys. Registration can be done at the [Digitransit API portal](https://portal-api.digitransit.fi/). After the registration, it is possible to create subscriptions to a product. API keys related to the subscriptions will be available at the API portal.

## Transition period
Developers will have time until 3.4.2023 to register at [the API portal](https://portal-api.digitransit.fi/) and to start using API keys in requests. After that, we will prevent anonymous use of production APIs.

## Acquiring API keys
API keys are acquired from [the API portal](https://portal-api.digitransit.fi). You need to be logged in to manage your API keys, so either sign in or sign up from the top right corner. **NOTE**: If you're signing up, the email that you enter will be used in initial authentication, so make sure to select an email that you have access to. After this you will be prompted to select a two-factor authentication method, which will either be a code sent to your email or using a verification app. Two-factor authentication will be used on future logins, so make sure you follow the instructions given when selecting your preferred authentication method.

After logging in, APIs that are available for you to subscribe to are visible under the "Products" tab.

![products tab](./images/instructions-products.png)

After clicking an API product, you will be able to subscribe to it. When clicking the subscribe button, you will be prompted to answer a brief questionnaire.

![subscribe](./images/instructions-subscribe.png)

After subscription, you can find the key under the "Profile" tab. Click "Show" to reveal the key. A subscription also contains a secondary key so that it's possible to regenerate a key while the primary key is in use or vice versa. There is an option to regenerate a key next to the "Show" button.

![profile](./images/instructions-profile.png)

## Use of API keys
An API key can be included either as a URL parameter or as a header. The parameter and the header name are both `digitransit-subscription-key` and the value should be the key. The API keys should not be attached to requests going to [the deprecated APIs](../deprecations).

## Testing the use API keys
We will not validate the keys in requests to the production APIs before the end of the transition period. To validate that the use of APIs will work after the transition period, please also register as a user of our development API at the [development API portal](https://portal-dev-api.digitransit.fi/). Note, that registration and subscription process might not work in all networks. Please try a different one if there are issues. While testing, try sending requests to [dev-api.digitransit.fi](https://dev-api.digitransit.fi) instead of [api.digitransit.fi](https://api.digitransit.fi) and [digitransit-dev-cdn-origin.azureedge.net](https://digitransit-dev-cdn-origin.azureedge.net) instead of [cdn.digitransit.fi](https://cdn.digitransit.fi) and [digitransit-prod-cdn-origin.azureedge.net](https://digitransit-prod-cdn-origin.azureedge.net). If the API keys are being used correctly, the requests should not return 401 unauthorized error. <b>IMPORTANT NOTE: THE API KEYS FROM THIS DEVELOPMENT API PORTAL WILL NOT WORK AGAINST OUR PRODUCTION APIS AFTER THE TRANSITION PERIOD, AND THE DEVELOPMENT APIS ARE NOT MEANT FOR PRODUCTION USE</b>.

## Deprecations
We have deprecated some old API endpoints that are no longer needed. The list of these deprecations and how to migrate away from using those can be found [here](../deprecations).

These old endpoints are not shown in the API portal and they will not be usable with the new API keys. We will remove these endpoints at the end of the transition period, i.e. after 3.4.2023.

## Quota and rate limiting
In the future, we will enforce rate and quota limiting. The limits should only restrict misuse of the APIs, not normal use. We will inform the registered users about these limits before we will enforce them.

Commit message:

add alts and image descriptions to new images

src/pages/en/developers/api-registration/index.md, after:

---
title: API portal and registration
order: -12
---

## Digitransit API portal
Starting from 3.4.2023, the use of the Digitransit production APIs ([api.digitransit.fi](https://api.digitransit.fi), [cdn.digitransit.fi](https://cdn.digitransit.fi) and [digitransit-prod-cdn-origin.azureedge.net](https://digitransit-prod-cdn-origin.azureedge.net)) will require registration and use of API keys. Registration can be done at the [Digitransit API portal](https://portal-api.digitransit.fi/). After the registration, it is possible to create subscriptions to a product. API keys related to the subscriptions will be available at the API portal.

## Transition period
Developers will have time until 3.4.2023 to register at [the API portal](https://portal-api.digitransit.fi/) and to start using API keys in requests. After that, we will prevent anonymous use of production APIs.

## Acquiring API keys
API keys are acquired from [the API portal](https://portal-api.digitransit.fi). You need to be logged in to manage your API keys, so either sign in or sign up from the top right corner. **NOTE**: If you're signing up, the email that you enter will be used in initial authentication, so make sure to select an email that you have access to. After this you will be prompted to select a two-factor authentication method, which will either be a code sent to your email or using a verification app. Two-factor authentication will be used on future logins, so make sure you follow the instructions given when selecting your preferred authentication method.

After logging in, APIs that are available for you to subscribe to are visible under the "Products" tab.

![An image displaying the navigation to the products tab from the top right of the screen and the page contents](./images/instructions-products.png "Products page contents")

After clicking an API product, you will be able to subscribe to it. When clicking the subscribe button, you will be prompted to answer a brief questionnaire.

![An image displaying the page where you can click the subscription button](./images/instructions-subscribe.png "Subscribing to an API product")

After subscription, you can find the key under the "Profile" tab. Click "Show" to reveal the key. A subscription also contains a secondary key so that it's possible to regenerate a key while the primary key is in use or vice versa. There is an option to regenerate a key next to the "Show" button.

![An image displaying the page contents of the Profile page, and the area where you can find the API key](./images/instructions-profile.png "Profile page contents and API key location")

## Use of API keys
An API key can be included either as a URL parameter or as a header. The parameter and the header name are both `digitransit-subscription-key` and the value should be the key. The API keys should not be attached to requests going to [the deprecated APIs](../deprecations).

## Testing the use API keys
We will not validate the keys in requests to the production APIs before the end of the transition period. To validate that the use of APIs will work after the transition period, please also register as a user of our development API at the [development API portal](https://portal-dev-api.digitransit.fi/). Note, that registration and subscription process might not work in all networks. Please try a different one if there are issues. While testing, try sending requests to [dev-api.digitransit.fi](https://dev-api.digitransit.fi) instead of [api.digitransit.fi](https://api.digitransit.fi) and [digitransit-dev-cdn-origin.azureedge.net](https://digitransit-dev-cdn-origin.azureedge.net) instead of [cdn.digitransit.fi](https://cdn.digitransit.fi) and [digitransit-prod-cdn-origin.azureedge.net](https://digitransit-prod-cdn-origin.azureedge.net). If the API keys are being used correctly, the requests should not return 401 unauthorized error. <b>IMPORTANT NOTE: THE API KEYS FROM THIS DEVELOPMENT API PORTAL WILL NOT WORK AGAINST OUR PRODUCTION APIS AFTER THE TRANSITION PERIOD, AND THE DEVELOPMENT APIS ARE NOT MEANT FOR PRODUCTION USE</b>.

## Deprecations
We have deprecated some old API endpoints that are no longer needed. The list of these deprecations and how to migrate away from using those can be found [here](../deprecations).

These old endpoints are not shown in the API portal and they will not be usable with the new API keys. We will remove these endpoints at the end of the transition period, i.e. after 3.4.2023.

## Quota and rate limiting
In the future, we will enforce rate and quota limiting. The limits should only restrict misuse of the APIs, not normal use. We will inform the registered users about these limits before we will enforce them.
