pages/en/developers/apis/4-realtime-api/vehicle-positions/index.md, before:

---
title: High-frequency positioning (HFP)
description:
  info: The open HFP API can be used to subscribe to vehicle movements in soft real time.
  architecture: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HSLdevcom/digitransit-site/master/pages/en/developers/apis/4-realtime-api/vehicle-positions/architecture.xml
---

Most of the vehicles in the HSL area should publish their status, including their position, once per second.
The missing vehicles consist of the metro and the U-line busses.

Devices of the end users can subscribe to receive only the relevant messages based on mode of transport, route ID, map region etc.
The subscription scope is specified by the MQTT topic structure of the API.

## Quickstart

1. Install an MQTT command line client, e.g. [MQTT.js](https://github.com/mqttjs/MQTT.js) or [mosquitto](https://mosquitto.org/) (and its client tools)
1. For MQTT.js:
   ```
   mqtt subcribe --hostname mqtt.hsl.fi --port 443 --verbose --topic "/hfp/v1/journey/#"
   ```
   For mosquitto:
   ```
   mosquitto_sub -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v -t "/hfp/v1/journey/#"
   ```

Enjoy the firehose!

## API endpoints

| URL                        | Description                                                                                                           |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `mqtts://mqtt.hsl.fi:443/` | The bare MQTT protocol with TLS, lightweight.
| `wss://mqtt.hsl.fi:443/`   | MQTT over WebSockets with TLS, for browsers.
| `mqtt://mqtt.hsl.fi:1883/` | The bare MQTT protocol without TLS, lightweight. Prefer the port 443 to respect the locational privacy of your users.
| `ws://mqtt.hsl.fi:1883/`   | MQTT over WebSockets without TLS. Prefer the port 443 to respect the locational privacy of your users.

## Message format

From a client's point of view, every MQTT message has two parts, the topic and the binary payload.

### The topic

The topic looks similar to a file path with levels separated by `/`.
When subscribing, all values for a level or several levels may be specified with a wildcard.
`+` refers to all values for one level, `#` refers to all values for the rest of the levels.
See the advanced examples [further below](#examples) on how to tailor the subscription to your needs.

Here is an example of an HFP message topic:
```
/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/bus/0022/00869/2118B/2/Tapiola (M)/16:23/2241237/5/60;24/17/84/15
```
It can be split into these parts:
```
<prefix><version>/journey/<temporal_type>/<transport_mode>/<operator_id>/<vehicle_number>/<route_id>/<direction_id>/<headsign>/<start_time>/<next_stop>/<geohash_level>/<geohash>/#
```

| Attribute        | Decription                                             |
|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| `prefix`         | `/hfp/` is the root of the topic tree.
| `version`        | `v1` is the current version of the HFP topic and the payload format.
| `temporal_type`  | The type of the journey, `ongoing` or `upcoming`. `ongoing` describes the current situation. `upcoming` refers to the next expected journey of the same vehicle. `upcoming` messages are broadcasted shortly before the start of the next journey. One use of `upcoming` is to show the relevant vehicle to your users even before the driver has signed on to the journey that your users are interested in. `upcoming` is not working properly yet, though.
| `transport_mode` | The type of the vehicle. One of `bus`, `tram` or `train`. Metro and ferry are not supported. Due to a bug some replacement busses for tram lines have `tram` as their type. We are working on it.
| `operator_id`    | The unique ID of the operator that _owns_ the vehicle.
| `vehicle_number` | The vehicle number that can be seen painted on the side of the vehicle, often next to the front door. Different operators may use overlapping vehicle numbers. `operator_id/vehicle_number` uniquely identifies the vehicle.
| `route_id`       | Matches `route_id` in GTFS. Due to a bug some rare "number variants" do not match GTFS properly. We are working on it.
| `direction_id`   | Line direction of the trip. Matches `direction_id` in GTFS. Either `1` or `2`.
| `headsign`       | Destination name, e.g. `Aviapolis`. Note: This does NOT match `trip_headsign` in GTFS exactly.
| `start_time`     | The scheduled start time of the trip, i.e. the scheduled departure time from the first stop of the trip. The format follows `HH:mm` in 24-hour local time, not the 30-hour overlapping operating days present in the GTFS dump.
| `next_stop`      | Next stop or station. Updated on each departure from or passing of a stop. `EOL` (end of line) after final stop. Matches `stop_id` in GTFS.
| `geohash_level`  | The geohash level represents the magnitude of change in the GPS coordinates since the previous message from the same vehicle. More exactly, geohash_level is equal to the minimum of the decimal positions of the most significant changed decimal in [latitude and longitude](#payload) since the previous message. For example, if the previous message has value (60.12345, 25.12345) for (`lat`, `long`) and the current message has value (60.12499, 25.12388), then the third decimal is the most significant changed decimal and `geohash_level` has value `3`.<br/>However, `geohash_level` value `0` is overloaded. `geohash_level` is `0` if:<ul><li>the integer part of latitude or longitude has changed,</li><li>the previous message or the current message has `null` for coordinates or</li><li>the non-location parts of the topic have changed, e.g. when a bus departs from a stop.</li></ul>By subscribing to specific geohash levels, you can reduce the amount of traffic into the client. By only subscribing to level `0` the client gets the most important status changes. The rough percentages of messages with a specific `geohash_level` value out of all `ongoing` messages:<ul><li>`0`: 3 %</li><li>`1`: 0.09 %</li><li>`2`: 0.9 %</li><li>`3`: 8 %</li><li>`4`: 43 %</li><li>`5`: 44 %</li></ul>
| `geohash`        | The latitude and the longitude of the vehicle. The integer parts of the latitude and the longitude are separated into their own level in the format `<lat>;<long>`, e.g. `60;24`. The decimals are split and interleaved into a custom format so that e.g. (60.123, 24.789) becomes `60;24/17/28/39`. This format enables subscribing to specific geographic boundaries easily. This geohash scheme is greatly simplified from [the original geohash scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geohash).

### <a name="payload"></a>The payload

The payload is an UTF-8-encoded, compact JSON string. Here is an example:
```
{"VP":{"desi":"81","dir":"2","oper":22,"veh":792,"tst":"2018-04-05T17:38:36Z","tsi":1522949916,"spd":0.16,"hdg":225,"lat":60.194481,"long":25.03095,"acc":0,"dl":-25,"odo":2819,"drst":0,"oday":"2018-04-05","jrn":636,"line":112,"start":"20:25"}}
```
which prettyprints to:
```
{
  "VP": {
    "desi": "81",
    "dir": "2",
    "oper": 22,
    "veh": 792,
    "tst": "2018-04-05T17:38:36Z",
    "tsi": 1522949916,
    "spd": 0.16,
    "hdg": 225,
    "lat": 60.194481,
    "long": 25.03095,
    "acc": 0,
    "dl": -25,
    "odo": 2819,
    "drst": 0,
    "oday": "2018-04-05",
    "jrn": 636,
    "line": 112,
    "start": "20:25"
  }
}
```

`VP` is a fixed key and refers to Vehicle Position but not to GTFS Realtime. The changing fields are described below:

| Attribute | Decription                                             |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| `desi`    | A string representing the line number visible to passengers.
| `dir`     | A string representing the line direction of the trip. After type conversion matches `direction_id` in GTFS and the topic. Either `"1"` or `"2"`.
| `oper`    | A number representing the unique ID of the operator _running_ the trip. The unique ID does not have prefix zeroes here.
| `veh`     | A number representing the vehicle number that can be seen painted on the side of the vehicle, often next to the front door. Different operators may use overlapping vehicle numbers. Matches `vehicle_number` in the topic except without the prefix zeroes.
| `tst`     | A string representing the UTC timestamp from the vehicle in ISO 8601 format as output by `date --utc '+%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ'`.
| `tsi`     | A number representing the Unix time in seconds, matching `tst`.
| `spd`     | A number representing the speed (m/s).
| `hdg`     | A number representing the heading in degrees (⁰) starting clockwise from north. Valid values are on the closed interval [0, 360]. Currently the values are integers.
| `lat`     | A number representing the WGS 84 latitude in degrees. `null` if there is no GPS fix.
| `long`    | A number representing the WGS 84 longitude in degrees. `null` if there is no GPS fix.
| `acc`     | A number representing the acceleration (m/s^2), calculated from the speed on this and the previous message.
| `dl`      | A number representing the negation of delay in seconds (s) compared to the timetable. Negative values indicate lagging behind the schedule, positive values running ahead of schedule. Currently the values are integers.
| `odo`     | A number representing the odometer reading in meters (m) since the start of the trip. Currently the values are integers and are not very reliable.
| `drst`    | A number representing the door status. `0` if all the doors are closed, `1` if any of the doors are open.
| `oday`    | A string representing the operating day of the trip. An operating day ends at 04:30 the next morning, e.g. the final moment of the operating day `"2018-04-05"` is at 2018-04-06T04:30 local time. Thus for some but not all late-night trips the operating day is the previous calendar day.
| `jrn`     | A number representing an internal journey descriptor, not meant to be useful for external use.
| `line`    | A number representing an internal line descriptor, not meant to be useful for external use.
| `start`   | A string representing the scheduled start time of the trip, i.e. the scheduled departure time from the first stop of the trip. The format follows `HH:mm` in 24-hour local time, not the 30-hour overlapping operating days present in the GTFS dump. Matches `start_time` in the topic.

### Operators

The numerical values for the different transit operators are listed below:

| `oper` | Operator name                |
|--------|------------------------------|
| 12     | Helsingin Bussiliikenne Oy
| 17     | Tammelundin Liikenne Oy
| 18     | Pohjolan Kaupunkiliikenne Oy
| 20     | Bus Travel Åbergin Linja Oy
| 21     | Bus Travel Oy Reissu Ruoti
| 22     | Nobina Finland Oy
| 36     | Nurmijärven Linja Oy
| 40     | HKL-Raitioliikenne
| 45     | Transdev Vantaa Oy
| 47     | Taksikuljetus Oy
| 54     | V-S Bussipalvelut Oy
| 59     | Tilausliikenne Nikkanen Oy
| 90     | VR Oy

## <a name="examples"></a>Examples

The HFP topic format forms a tree.
By combining wildcards with several topic filters in one MQTT `SUBSCRIBE` packet you can carve quite interesting subsets of the tree to serve different use cases.
As the MQTT broker handles the resolving of the topic filters, handling messages for complicated subscriptions does not have inherent overhead in the client compared to simple subscriptions.
Go hog wild.

Below are sample subscriptions using MQTT.js.

### A situational overview

To get just the most significant status updates, use:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/0/#'
```

### A line in one direction

To subscribe to all vehicles currently on the line 551 (`route_short_name` in GTFS) going in direction 1, subscribe to the corresponding `route_id` 2551:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/2551/1/#'
```

### All trams

Subscribe to all trams with:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/tram/#'
```

### A certain trip

Subscribe to messages of a certain trip, even slightly before the driver has signed onto the trip:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/+/+/+/+/9975/1/+/12:15/#'
```

Or if your users would find it confusing to see a vehicle going in the wrong direction, subscribe to the `ongoing` messages only:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/9975/1/+/12:15/#'
```

### A bounding box

Let's assume that you wish to subscribe to all action inside the following [GeoJSON](http://geojson.io) Polygon:
```
{
  "type": "Feature",
  "geometry": {
    "type": "Polygon",
    "coordinates": [
      [
        [
          24.9578905105,
          60.1836538254
        ],
        [
          24.9646711349,
          60.1836538254
        ],
        [
          24.9646711349,
          60.1894146967
        ],
        [
          24.9578905105,
          60.1894146967
        ],
        [
          24.9578905105,
          60.1836538254
        ]
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

The box bounded by the latitude interval `[60.18, 60.19[` and the longitude interval `[24.95, 24.97[` corresponds with the following HFP subscription:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/#'
```
For the precision of one more decimal of latitude and longitude, one would need 56 topic filters for the bounding box:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/37/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/38/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/39/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/30/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/31/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/32/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/33/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/34/#' \
  \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/47/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/48/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/49/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/40/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/41/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/42/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/43/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/44/#' \
  \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/57/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/58/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/59/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/50/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/51/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/52/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/53/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/54/#' \
  \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/67/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/68/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/69/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/60/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/61/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/62/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/63/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/64/#' \
  \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/77/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/78/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/79/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/70/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/71/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/72/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/73/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/74/#' \
  \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/87/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/88/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/89/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/80/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/81/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/82/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/83/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/84/#' \
  \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/97/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/98/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/99/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/90/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/91/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/92/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/93/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/94/#'
```

There is no need to restrict yourself to rectangular shapes for subscriptions, though.

Homework assignment: Generate an HFP subscription for the Kontula borough with four-decimal precision.

## Further reading

- The [MQTT Essentials](https://www.hivemq.com/blog/mqtt-essentials-part-1-introducing-mqtt) series introduces the MQTT protocol in more detail.
- [LightMQTT](https://github.com/PasiSalenius/LightMQTT) is an MQTT client library written in Swift by one of the developers in the HSL developer community.

Commit message:

Rework the intro and the excluded vehicles

pages/en/developers/apis/4-realtime-api/vehicle-positions/index.md, after:

---
title: High-frequency positioning (HFP)
description:
  info: The open HFP API can be used to subscribe to vehicle movements in soft real time.
  architecture: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HSLdevcom/digitransit-site/master/pages/en/developers/apis/4-realtime-api/vehicle-positions/architecture.xml
---

Most of the vehicles in the HSL area should publish their status, including their position, once per second.
The devices of the end users, e.g. smartphones, may subscribe to receive the relevant messages based on their context, e.g. filtered on the mode of transport, the route ID, the geographical region etc.
The subscription scope is specified by the MQTT topic structure of the API.

## Quickstart

1. Install an MQTT command line client, e.g. [MQTT.js](https://github.com/mqttjs/MQTT.js) or [mosquitto](https://mosquitto.org/) (and its client tools)
1. For MQTT.js:
   ```
   mqtt subcribe --hostname mqtt.hsl.fi --port 443 --verbose --topic "/hfp/v1/journey/#"
   ```
   For mosquitto:
   ```
   mosquitto_sub -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v -t "/hfp/v1/journey/#"
   ```

Enjoy the firehose!

## API endpoints

| URL                        | Description                                                                                                           |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `mqtts://mqtt.hsl.fi:443/` | The bare MQTT protocol with TLS, lightweight.
| `wss://mqtt.hsl.fi:443/`   | MQTT over WebSockets with TLS, for browsers.
| `mqtt://mqtt.hsl.fi:1883/` | The bare MQTT protocol without TLS, lightweight. Prefer the port 443 to respect the locational privacy of your users.
| `ws://mqtt.hsl.fi:1883/`   | MQTT over WebSockets without TLS. Prefer the port 443 to respect the locational privacy of your users.

## Message format

From a client's point of view, every MQTT message has two parts, the topic and the binary payload.

### The topic

The topic looks similar to a file path with levels separated by `/`.
When subscribing, all values for a level or several levels may be specified with a wildcard.
`+` refers to all values for one level, `#` refers to all values for the rest of the levels.
See the advanced examples [further below](#examples) on how to tailor the subscription to your needs.

Here is an example of an HFP message topic:
```
/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/bus/0022/00869/2118B/2/Tapiola (M)/16:23/2241237/5/60;24/17/84/15
```
It can be split into these parts:
```
<prefix><version>/journey/<temporal_type>/<transport_mode>/<operator_id>/<vehicle_number>/<route_id>/<direction_id>/<headsign>/<start_time>/<next_stop>/<geohash_level>/<geohash>/#
```

| Attribute        | Decription                                             |
|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| `prefix`         | `/hfp/` is the root of the topic tree.
| `version`        | `v1` is the current version of the HFP topic and the payload format.
| `temporal_type`  | The type of the journey, `ongoing` or `upcoming`. `ongoing` describes the current situation. `upcoming` refers to the next expected journey of the same vehicle. `upcoming` messages are broadcasted shortly before the start of the next journey. One use of `upcoming` is to show the relevant vehicle to your users even before the driver has signed on to the journey that your users are interested in. `upcoming` is not working properly yet, though.
| `transport_mode` | The type of the vehicle. One of `bus`, `tram` or `train`. The metro, the ferries and the U-line busses are not supported. Due to a bug some replacement busses for tram lines have `tram` as their type. We are working on it.
| `operator_id`    | The unique ID of the operator that _owns_ the vehicle.
| `vehicle_number` | The vehicle number that can be seen painted on the side of the vehicle, often next to the front door. Different operators may use overlapping vehicle numbers. `operator_id/vehicle_number` uniquely identifies the vehicle.
| `route_id`       | Matches `route_id` in GTFS. Due to a bug some rare "number variants" do not match GTFS properly. We are working on it.
| `direction_id`   | Line direction of the trip. Matches `direction_id` in GTFS. Either `1` or `2`.
| `headsign`       | Destination name, e.g. `Aviapolis`. Note: This does NOT match `trip_headsign` in GTFS exactly.
| `start_time`     | The scheduled start time of the trip, i.e. the scheduled departure time from the first stop of the trip. The format follows `HH:mm` in 24-hour local time, not the 30-hour overlapping operating days present in the GTFS dump.
| `next_stop`      | Next stop or station. Updated on each departure from or passing of a stop. `EOL` (end of line) after final stop. Matches `stop_id` in GTFS.
| `geohash_level`  | The geohash level represents the magnitude of change in the GPS coordinates since the previous message from the same vehicle. More exactly, geohash_level is equal to the minimum of the decimal positions of the most significant changed decimal in [latitude and longitude](#payload) since the previous message. For example, if the previous message has value (60.12345, 25.12345) for (`lat`, `long`) and the current message has value (60.12499, 25.12388), then the third decimal is the most significant changed decimal and `geohash_level` has value `3`.<br/>However, `geohash_level` value `0` is overloaded. `geohash_level` is `0` if:<ul><li>the integer part of latitude or longitude has changed,</li><li>the previous message or the current message has `null` for coordinates or</li><li>the non-location parts of the topic have changed, e.g. when a bus departs from a stop.</li></ul>By subscribing to specific geohash levels, you can reduce the amount of traffic into the client. By only subscribing to level `0` the client gets the most important status changes. The rough percentages of messages with a specific `geohash_level` value out of all `ongoing` messages:<ul><li>`0`: 3 %</li><li>`1`: 0.09 %</li><li>`2`: 0.9 %</li><li>`3`: 8 %</li><li>`4`: 43 %</li><li>`5`: 44 %</li></ul>
| `geohash`        | The latitude and the longitude of the vehicle. The integer parts of the latitude and the longitude are separated into their own level in the format `<lat>;<long>`, e.g. `60;24`. The decimals are split and interleaved into a custom format so that e.g. (60.123, 24.789) becomes `60;24/17/28/39`. This format enables subscribing to specific geographic boundaries easily. This geohash scheme is greatly simplified from [the original geohash scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geohash).

### <a name="payload"></a>The payload

The payload is an UTF-8-encoded, compact JSON string. Here is an example:
```
{"VP":{"desi":"81","dir":"2","oper":22,"veh":792,"tst":"2018-04-05T17:38:36Z","tsi":1522949916,"spd":0.16,"hdg":225,"lat":60.194481,"long":25.03095,"acc":0,"dl":-25,"odo":2819,"drst":0,"oday":"2018-04-05","jrn":636,"line":112,"start":"20:25"}}
```
which prettyprints to:
```
{
  "VP": {
    "desi": "81",
    "dir": "2",
    "oper": 22,
    "veh": 792,
    "tst": "2018-04-05T17:38:36Z",
    "tsi": 1522949916,
    "spd": 0.16,
    "hdg": 225,
    "lat": 60.194481,
    "long": 25.03095,
    "acc": 0,
    "dl": -25,
    "odo": 2819,
    "drst": 0,
    "oday": "2018-04-05",
    "jrn": 636,
    "line": 112,
    "start": "20:25"
  }
}
```

`VP` is a fixed key and refers to Vehicle Position but not to GTFS Realtime. The changing fields are described below:

| Attribute | Decription                                             |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| `desi`    | A string representing the line number visible to passengers.
| `dir`     | A string representing the line direction of the trip. After type conversion matches `direction_id` in GTFS and the topic. Either `"1"` or `"2"`.
| `oper`    | A number representing the unique ID of the operator _running_ the trip. The unique ID does not have prefix zeroes here.
| `veh`     | A number representing the vehicle number that can be seen painted on the side of the vehicle, often next to the front door. Different operators may use overlapping vehicle numbers. Matches `vehicle_number` in the topic except without the prefix zeroes.
| `tst`     | A string representing the UTC timestamp from the vehicle in ISO 8601 format as output by `date --utc '+%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ'`.
| `tsi`     | A number representing the Unix time in seconds, matching `tst`.
| `spd`     | A number representing the speed (m/s).
| `hdg`     | A number representing the heading in degrees (⁰) starting clockwise from north. Valid values are on the closed interval [0, 360]. Currently the values are integers.
| `lat`     | A number representing the WGS 84 latitude in degrees. `null` if there is no GPS fix.
| `long`    | A number representing the WGS 84 longitude in degrees. `null` if there is no GPS fix.
| `acc`     | A number representing the acceleration (m/s^2), calculated from the speed on this and the previous message.
| `dl`      | A number representing the negation of delay in seconds (s) compared to the timetable. Negative values indicate lagging behind the schedule, positive values running ahead of schedule. Currently the values are integers.
| `odo`     | A number representing the odometer reading in meters (m) since the start of the trip. Currently the values are integers and are not very reliable.
| `drst`    | A number representing the door status. `0` if all the doors are closed, `1` if any of the doors are open.
| `oday`    | A string representing the operating day of the trip. An operating day ends at 04:30 the next morning, e.g. the final moment of the operating day `"2018-04-05"` is at 2018-04-06T04:30 local time. Thus for some but not all late-night trips the operating day is the previous calendar day.
| `jrn`     | A number representing an internal journey descriptor, not meant to be useful for external use.
| `line`    | A number representing an internal line descriptor, not meant to be useful for external use.
| `start`   | A string representing the scheduled start time of the trip, i.e. the scheduled departure time from the first stop of the trip. The format follows `HH:mm` in 24-hour local time, not the 30-hour overlapping operating days present in the GTFS dump. Matches `start_time` in the topic.

### Operators

The numerical values for the different transit operators are listed below:

| `oper` | Operator name                |
|--------|------------------------------|
| 12     | Helsingin Bussiliikenne Oy
| 17     | Tammelundin Liikenne Oy
| 18     | Pohjolan Kaupunkiliikenne Oy
| 20     | Bus Travel Åbergin Linja Oy
| 21     | Bus Travel Oy Reissu Ruoti
| 22     | Nobina Finland Oy
| 36     | Nurmijärven Linja Oy
| 40     | HKL-Raitioliikenne
| 45     | Transdev Vantaa Oy
| 47     | Taksikuljetus Oy
| 54     | V-S Bussipalvelut Oy
| 59     | Tilausliikenne Nikkanen Oy
| 90     | VR Oy

## <a name="examples"></a>Examples

The HFP topic format forms a tree.
By combining wildcards with several topic filters in one MQTT `SUBSCRIBE` packet you can carve quite interesting subsets of the tree to serve different use cases.
As the MQTT broker handles the resolving of the topic filters, handling messages for complicated subscriptions does not have inherent overhead in the client compared to simple subscriptions.
Go hog wild.

Below are sample subscriptions using MQTT.js.

### A situational overview

To get just the most significant status updates, use:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/0/#'
```

### A line in one direction

To subscribe to all vehicles currently on the line 551 (`route_short_name` in GTFS) going in direction 1, subscribe to the corresponding `route_id` 2551:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/2551/1/#'
```

### All trams

Subscribe to all trams with:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/tram/#'
```

### A certain trip

Subscribe to messages of a certain trip, even slightly before the driver has signed onto the trip:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/+/+/+/+/9975/1/+/12:15/#'
```

Or if your users would find it confusing to see a vehicle going in the wrong direction, subscribe to the `ongoing` messages only:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/9975/1/+/12:15/#'
```

### A bounding box

Let's assume that you wish to subscribe to all action inside the following [GeoJSON](http://geojson.io) Polygon:
```
{
  "type": "Feature",
  "geometry": {
    "type": "Polygon",
    "coordinates": [
      [
        [
          24.9578905105,
          60.1836538254
        ],
        [
          24.9646711349,
          60.1836538254
        ],
        [
          24.9646711349,
          60.1894146967
        ],
        [
          24.9578905105,
          60.1894146967
        ],
        [
          24.9578905105,
          60.1836538254
        ]
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

The box bounded by the latitude interval `[60.18, 60.19[` and the longitude interval `[24.95, 24.97[` corresponds with the following HFP subscription:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/#'
```
For the precision of one more decimal of latitude and longitude, one would need 56 topic filters for the bounding box:
```
mqtt subscribe -h mqtt.hsl.fi -p 443 -v \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/37/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/38/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/39/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/30/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/31/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/32/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/33/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/34/#' \
  \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/47/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/48/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/49/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/40/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/41/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/42/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/43/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/44/#' \
  \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/57/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/58/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/59/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/50/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/51/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/52/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/53/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/54/#' \
  \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/67/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/68/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/69/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/60/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/61/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/62/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/63/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/64/#' \
  \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/77/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/78/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/79/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/70/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/71/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/72/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/73/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/74/#' \
  \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/87/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/88/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/89/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/80/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/81/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/82/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/83/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/84/#' \
  \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/97/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/98/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/85/99/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/90/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/91/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/92/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/93/#' \
  -t '/hfp/v1/journey/ongoing/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/+/60;24/19/86/94/#'
```

There is no need to restrict yourself to rectangular shapes for subscriptions, though.

Homework assignment: Generate an HFP subscription for the Kontula borough with four-decimal precision.

## Further reading

- The [MQTT Essentials](https://www.hivemq.com/blog/mqtt-essentials-part-1-introducing-mqtt) series introduces the MQTT protocol in more detail.
- [LightMQTT](https://github.com/PasiSalenius/LightMQTT) is an MQTT client library written in Swift by one of the developers in the HSL developer community.
