pages/en/developers/services/6-data-containers/routing-data/index.md, before:

---
title: Routing Data
description:
  info: "Routing Data provides three OpenTripPlanner router zip files: Helsinki region, the Waltti regions, and whole Finland."
  architecture: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HSLdevcom/digitransit-site/master/pages/en/developers/services/6-data-containers/routing-data/architecture.xml
assets:
  source: https://github.com/HSLdevcom/OpenTripPlanner-data-container
  DockerHub: https://hub.docker.com/r/hsldevcom/opentripplanner-data-container-hsl/
docker:
  dockerfile: https://github.com/HSLdevcom/OpenTripPlanner-data-container/blob/master/otp-data-container/Dockerfile.data-container
  imageName: hsldevcom/opentripplanner-data-container-hsl
  buildScript: https://github.com/HSLdevcom/OpenTripPlanner-data-container/blob/master/travis-build.sh
  runContainer: docker run -d -p 8080:8080 --name hsl-data-container hsldevcom/opentripplanner-data-container-hsl
  accessContainer: http://localhost:8080/
  travisBuild: OpenTripPlanner-data-container
---

## Data flow

The data flow is described in detail here: https://github.com/HSLdevcom/OpenTripPlanner-data-container/blob/master/README.md

## OpenTripPlanner router zip files
We provide a data container for each router (Finland, Waltti, HSL). The currently active routing data can be viewed from the corresponding production HTTP endpoints:

1. https://api.digitransit.fi/routing-data/v2/finland/

2. https://api.digitransit.fi/routing-data/v2/waltti/

3. https://api.digitransit.fi/routing-data/v2/hsl/

For example, the HSL routing data consists of the following files:

1. `build-config.json`
   This is the OTP configuration file that is used to build the OTP Graph file

2. `graph-hsl-753c4cfe9f63400f0ad093bc515d1bba6b8e14a1.zip`
  This is the prebuilt OTP graph file. The naming convention is `graph-<router_id>-<commit_hash>.zip`
  Digitransit OTP will first try to load this file and if it fails (version mismatch) it then downloads `router-hsl.zip` that contains all the data so that it can build the graph itself.

3. `hsl.pbf`
  OpenStreetMap data file for the HSL region (used by OTP)

4. `HSL.zip`
  GTFS file (other routers have many different GTFS files)

5. `router-config.json`
  The per-router customized runtime configuration for OTP.

6. `router-hsl.zip`
  Convenient package for OTP to load when it needs to build a graph (contains all the files)

7. `version.txt`
  A version file that contains a timestamp (for example '2017-08-18T02:32:45.635Z') of the time when the data was processed.

[See how Routing API utilizes these zip files](../../../apis/1-routing-api/)

## Related open source projects

| URL                                         | Project description                     |
|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| https://blog.openstreetmap.org/             | OpenStreetMap blog
| https://github.com/tru-hy/gtfs_shape_mapfit | gtfs_shape_mapfit upstream, fits GTFS shape files to a given OSM map file
| https://onebusaway.org/                     | OneBusAway project, the open source platform for real-time transit info

Commit message:

Added information about incoming changes to Finland routing data

pages/en/developers/services/6-data-containers/routing-data/index.md, after:

---
title: Routing Data
description:
  info: "Routing Data provides three OpenTripPlanner router zip files: Helsinki region, the Waltti regions, and whole Finland."
  architecture: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HSLdevcom/digitransit-site/master/pages/en/developers/services/6-data-containers/routing-data/architecture.xml
assets:
  source: https://github.com/HSLdevcom/OpenTripPlanner-data-container
  DockerHub: https://hub.docker.com/r/hsldevcom/opentripplanner-data-container-hsl/
docker:
  dockerfile: https://github.com/HSLdevcom/OpenTripPlanner-data-container/blob/master/otp-data-container/Dockerfile.data-container
  imageName: hsldevcom/opentripplanner-data-container-hsl
  buildScript: https://github.com/HSLdevcom/OpenTripPlanner-data-container/blob/master/travis-build.sh
  runContainer: docker run -d -p 8080:8080 --name hsl-data-container hsldevcom/opentripplanner-data-container-hsl
  accessContainer: http://localhost:8080/
  travisBuild: OpenTripPlanner-data-container
---

## Data flow

The data flow is described in detail here: https://github.com/HSLdevcom/OpenTripPlanner-data-container/blob/master/README.md

## OpenTripPlanner router zip files
We provide a data container for each router (Finland, Waltti, HSL). The currently active routing data can be viewed from the corresponding production HTTP endpoints:

1. https://api.digitransit.fi/routing-data/v2/finland/

2. https://api.digitransit.fi/routing-data/v2/waltti/

3. https://api.digitransit.fi/routing-data/v2/hsl/

For example, the HSL routing data consists of the following files:

1. `build-config.json`
   This is the OTP configuration file that is used to build the OTP Graph file

2. `graph-hsl-753c4cfe9f63400f0ad093bc515d1bba6b8e14a1.zip`
  This is the prebuilt OTP graph file. The naming convention is `graph-<router_id>-<commit_hash>.zip`
  Digitransit OTP will first try to load this file and if it fails (version mismatch) it then downloads `router-hsl.zip` that contains all the data so that it can build the graph itself.

3. `hsl.pbf`
  OpenStreetMap data file for the HSL region (used by OTP)

4. `HSL.zip`
  GTFS file (other routers have many different GTFS files)

5. `router-config.json`
  The per-router customized runtime configuration for OTP.

6. `router-hsl.zip`
  Convenient package for OTP to load when it needs to build a graph (contains all the files)

7. `version.txt`
  A version file that contains a timestamp (for example '2017-08-18T02:32:45.635Z') of the time when the data was processed.

[See how Routing API utilizes these zip files](../../../apis/1-routing-api/)

## Note to users of Finland routing data
Due to changes in Finnish legislation on July 1st, 2018 all trips with value REITTI-XXXXX in column lupasoptunnus in table
https://beta.liikennevirasto.fi/joukkoliikenne/vuoro.xlsx will be excluded from the kalkati and gtfs national dump files at http://developer.matka.fi/ and https://www.digitransit.fi/en/developers/services/6-data-containers/routing-data/ as authorities will no longer maintain updates about commercial bus services.  
The Finland dump files and data container https://api.digitransit.fi/routing-data/v2/finland/ will still contain information about contractual services by the cities and Ely-centers.  
Please, visit https://www.liikennevirasto.fi/web/en/transport-system/nap for background information and https://finap.fi and https://github.com/finnishtransportagency/mmtis-national-access-point/blob/master/docs/api/README.md for alternative sources of route and timetable information.


For more information contact  
Mr. Martin Johansson  
Finnish Transport Agency, FTA  
Phone +358 295 34 3526  
e-mail: joukkoliikenne@liikennevirasto.fi  

## Related open source projects

| URL                                         | Project description                     |
|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| https://blog.openstreetmap.org/             | OpenStreetMap blog
| https://github.com/tru-hy/gtfs_shape_mapfit | gtfs_shape_mapfit upstream, fits GTFS shape files to a given OSM map file
| https://onebusaway.org/                     | OneBusAway project, the open source platform for real-time transit info
