pages/en/developers/apis/3-map-api/pois/index.md, before:

---
title: Points of interest
---

This API provides vector map tiles for points of interests like ticket sales positions, city bike stations and park and ride areas. They can be displayed on top of the background raster map.

## Data format

**Vector maps** are available in [Mapbox Vector Tile format](https://github.com/mapbox/vector-tile-spec)

**Vector tiles** are available from endpoint:

<pre>https://digitransit-prod-cdn-origin.azureedge.net/map/v1/source/:z/:x/:y.pbf</pre>

## Supported url parameters

| Parameter     | Type           | Description                                              |
|---------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| source        | string         | 'hsl-stop-map', 'hsl-parkandride-map', 'waltti-stop-map', 'finland-stop-map', 'hsl-citybike-map', 'hsl-ticket-sales-map'
| z             | int            | Zoom level
| x             | int            | x-coordinate
| y             | int            | y-coordinate
| size          | string         | '@2x' for retina tiles or empty value for normal

## Examples

### Map tiles address

> https://digitransit-prod-cdn-origin.azureedge.net/map/v1/hsl-stop-map/16/37308/18959.pbf

### Source address for Mapbox GL JS library

> https://digitransit-prod-cdn-origin.azureedge.net/map/v1/hsl-stop-map/index.json

Commit message:

map-api-page-fixes
map-api-page-fixes cdn urls and source value descriptions

pages/en/developers/apis/3-map-api/pois/index.md, after:

---
title: Points of interest
---

This API provides vector map tiles for points of interests like ticket sales positions, city bike stations and park and ride areas. They can be displayed on top of the background raster map.

## Data format

**Vector maps** are available in [Mapbox Vector Tile format](https://github.com/mapbox/vector-tile-spec)

**Vector tiles** are available from endpoint:

<pre>https://cdn.digitransit.fi/map/v1/source/:z/:x/:y.pbf</pre>

## Supported url parameters

| Parameter     | Type           | Description                                              |
|---------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| source        | string         | 'hsl-stop-map', 'hsl-parkandride-map', 'waltti-stop-map', 'finland-stop-map', 'hsl-citybike-map', 'hsl-ticket-sales-map'
| z             | int            | Zoom level
| x             | int            | x-coordinate
| y             | int            | y-coordinate
| size          | string         | '@2x' for retina tiles or empty value for normal

### Source values

| Value                | Description                                              |
|----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| hsl-stop-map         | A bus stop map of Helsinki
| hsl-parkandride-map  | A map showing the Park and Ride sites in the Helsinki region
| waltti-stop-map      | A bus stop map of Waltti regions. You can check the currently active regions at: http://waltti.fi/?lang=en
| finland-stop-map     | A bus stop map of Finland
| hsl-citybike-map     | A map showing the city bikes available in the Helsinki region
| hsl-ticket-sales-map | A map showing the ticket sales points in the Helsinki region. Includes for example many kiosks and stores.

## Examples

### Map tiles address

> https://cdn.digitransit.fi/map/v1/hsl-stop-map/16/37308/18959.pbf

### Source address for Mapbox GL JS library

> https://cdn.digitransit.fi/map/v1/hsl-stop-map/index.json
