pages/en/index.md, before:

---
headerText: "The next generation journey planner in the making. Contribute and leave your mark!"
isFront: true
panels:
  - title: For users
    body: You are the focus, always. The next generation journey planner pinpoints your location and shows nearby routes, stops and timetables, in real time! Real time means that you will see the location of buses and trains, as well as the accurate times of arrival at the stops. No more time wasted waiting. The service filters unnecessary information and tells what is going on around you and how to get to your destination more conveniently. In the future, the real time service will cover the whole country.
    links:
      - title: Go to the new HSL area Reittiopas.fi service (early test version)
        url: http://beta.reittiopas.fi/
      - title: Go to the new national Matka.fi service (early test version)
        url: http://beta.digitransit.fi/
    image: "/users.svg"
    id: users
    background: "#8c54a2"
    swapped: true
  - title: For developers
    body: Join us in developing the next generation journey planner that will be used by hundreds of thousands of people every day. Probably by you, too. You can develop the service as a whole or improve just one part of it. Make use of the code, create something new, and show it to others! You’ll be using state-of-the-art browser technology and will soon become familiar with the development environment. Roll up your sleeves and download Digitransit. The code is open-source.
    links:
      - title: Read the platform architecture description
        url: /en/developers/architecture/
      - title: Read more about the interfaces
        url: /en/developers/services-and-apis/
      # - title: Quick start guide
    image: "/developers.svg"
    id: developers
    background: "#ff8a3c"
  - title: For municipalities
    body: Be on the map and make your home municipality easier to move around. Join us in developing the next generation journey planner and get national visibility for your home municipality. Digitransit is an easy-to-access service platform provided by HSL and the Finnish Transport Agency. Thanks to open-source, all interested parties can participate in the development of the service. This is likely to decrease error rate, improve security and provide data that is always up-to-date. Make sure that the route and timetable information for your municipality are available for the service platform.
    links: []
      # - title: Digitransit palvelukuvaus
      # - title: Liity palveluun
    image: "/municipalities.svg"
    id: municipalities
    background: "#64be47"
    swapped: true
---
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Schedule</h2>
<div style="text-align: center;">

The Reittiopas.&zwnj;fi and Matka.&zwnj;fi by HSL and the Finnish Transport Agency are in development.<br />
Your help is welcome! Become a test user or contribute patches.<br />
The code is open-source. New services are released in the beginning of 2017.

<span class="large-link">[New Reittiopas »](http://beta.reittiopas.fi)</span>
<span class="large-link">[New Matka.fi »](http://beta.matka.fi)</span>

</div>

<h3>Development plan</h3>
<span class="large-link">[Roadmap of upcoming features (in Finnish) »](//fi/roadmap/)</span>

Commit message:

Updated outdated info
We need icon for TVV LMJ Oy to add next to the other partners.

pages/en/index.md, after:

---
headerText: "The next generation journey planner in the making. Contribute and leave your mark!"
isFront: true
panels:
  - title: For users
    body: You are the focus, always. The next generation journey planner pinpoints your location and shows nearby routes, stops and timetables, in real time! Real time means that you will see the location of buses and trains, as well as the accurate times of arrival at the stops. No more time wasted waiting. The service filters unnecessary information and tells what is going on around you and how to get to your destination more conveniently. In the future, the real time service will cover the whole country.
    links:
      - title: Go to the HSL area Reittiopas.fi service
        url: http://www.reittiopas.fi/
      - title: Go to the national Matka.fi service
        url: http://opas.matka.fi/
    image: "/users.svg"
    id: users
    background: "#8c54a2"
    swapped: true
  - title: For developers
    body: Join us in developing the next generation journey planner that is used by hundreds of thousands of people every day. Probably by you, too. You can develop the service further as a whole or improve just one part of it. Make use of the code, create something new, and show it to others! You’ll be using state-of-the-art browser technology and will soon become familiar with the development environment. Roll up your sleeves and download Digitransit. The code is open-source.
    links:
      - title: Read the platform architecture description
        url: /en/developers/architecture/
      - title: Read more about the interfaces
        url: /en/developers/services-and-apis/
      # - title: Quick start guide
    image: "/developers.svg"
    id: developers
    background: "#ff8a3c"
  - title: For municipalities
    body: Be on the map and make your home municipality easier to move around. Join us in developing the next generation journey planner and get national visibility for your home municipality. Digitransit is an easy-to-access service platform provided by HSL,  the Finnish Transport Agency and TVV LMJ Oy. Thanks to open-source, all interested parties can participate in the development of the service. This is likely to decrease error rate, improve security and provide data that is always up-to-date. Make sure that the route and timetable information for your municipality are available for the service platform.
    links: []
      # - title: Digitransit palvelukuvaus
      # - title: Liity palveluun
    image: "/municipalities.svg"
    id: municipalities
    background: "#64be47"
    swapped: true
---
<h2 style="text-align: center;">Reittiopas.fi and Matka.fi are now on-line</h2>
<div style="text-align: center;">

The Reittiopas.&zwnj;fi and Matka.&zwnj;fi by HSL and the Finnish Transport Agency are on-line since February 2017.<br />
We still need your help! Become a test user or contribute patches.<br />
The code is open-source.

<span class="large-link">[Reittiopas »](http://www.reittiopas.fi)</span>
<span class="large-link">[Matka.fi »](http://opas.matka.fi)</span>

</div>

<h3>Development plan</h3>
<span class="large-link">[Roadmap of upcoming features (in Finnish) »](//fi/roadmap/)</span>
