src/pages/en/developers/apis/4-realtime-api/service-alerts/index.md, before:

---
title: Service alerts
order: 20
replit:
  embeds:
    -
      title: "Show currently active alerts"
      url: https://repl.it/@digitransit/RealtimeServiceAlerts
      height: 700px
---

[[alert-warning]]
| **Note:** Service alerts API will be deprecated in the future in favor of [Disruption info](../../1-routing-api/disruption-info/) GraphQL API. This is part of an effort to reduce overlapping API functionalities and to concentrate APIs under the GraphQL APIs.

The HSL Alerts API can be used to query real-time updates from the HSL fleet in [GTFS-RT](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs-realtime/) format.
The API provides [service alerts](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs-realtime/guides/service-alerts) for disruptions (e.g. detours and significant delays) and [trip updates](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs-realtime/guides/trip-updates) for cancelled trips.

## Endpoint
`http://api.digitransit.fi/realtime/service-alerts/v1/`

### Supported URL parameters

| Parameter | Type            | Description                                              |
|-----------|-----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| debug     | query parameter | Print data in human readable format (for debug purposes) |

## Examples
* More examples from [Google](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs-realtime/examples/code-samples).

### Show currently active alerts with curl
> curl http://api.digitransit.fi/realtime/service-alerts/v1/?debug

Commit message:

Add links to HSL GTFS-RT documentation

src/pages/en/developers/apis/4-realtime-api/service-alerts/index.md, after:

---
title: Service alerts
order: 20
replit:
  embeds:
    -
      title: "Show currently active alerts"
      url: https://repl.it/@digitransit/RealtimeServiceAlerts
      height: 700px
---

[[alert-warning]]
| **Note:** Service alerts API will be deprecated in the future in favor of [Disruption info](../../1-routing-api/disruption-info/) GraphQL API. This is part of an effort to reduce overlapping API functionalities and to concentrate APIs under the GraphQL APIs.<br/><br/>If you need service alerts in GTFS-RT format, see [HSL GTFS-RT API documentation](https://hsldevcom.github.io/gtfs_rt/)

The HSL Alerts API can be used to query real-time updates from the HSL fleet in [GTFS-RT](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs-realtime/) format.
The API provides [service alerts](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs-realtime/guides/service-alerts) for disruptions (e.g. detours and significant delays) and [trip updates](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs-realtime/guides/trip-updates) for cancelled trips.

## Endpoint
`http://api.digitransit.fi/realtime/service-alerts/v1/`

### Supported URL parameters

| Parameter | Type            | Description                                              |
|-----------|-----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| debug     | query parameter | Print data in human readable format (for debug purposes) |

## Examples
* More examples from [Google](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs-realtime/examples/code-samples).

### Show currently active alerts with curl
> curl http://api.digitransit.fi/realtime/service-alerts/v1/?debug
