pages/en/developers/services-and-apis/2-geocoding-api/address-search/index.md, before:

---
title: Address search
---

Address search can be used to search addresses. Duh.

<!--
## Address search APIs

Address search can be done using either **Autocomplete API** or **Search API**

Autocomplete API is lighter and it's designed for "autocomplete" style searches. Search API has more search parameters available.

### Which one should I use?

If you need to limit your searches to some area, use Search API. If you don't want to limit searches to some area, use Autocomplete API.

## Autocomplete API
Autocomplete API can be used to make fuzzy searches e.g. when the user starts typing location into a search field. API is available at:

> http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/autocomplete

Search for kamppi:
```
curl "http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/autocomplete?text=kampp"
```

### Focus Autocomple API responses around given point

Search focus point boosts addresses found near the given focus point.

You can use focus.point-params like so:
```
curl "http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/autocomplete?text=kamppi&focus.point.lat=60.1995&focus.point.lon=24.9363"
```

To Read more about Pelias autocomplete API, check:
> https://github.com/pelias/pelias-doc/blob/master/autocomplete.md

-->

### Search API
Search API provides a way query addresses and POIs (points of interest). API is available at:

> http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/search

Supported url parameters:
| Parameter       | Type           | Description                                              |
|-----------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| text            | string         | Text to be searched
| size            | int            | How many results to return
| boundary.rect   | object         | Search only inside given rectangle
| boundary.cirlce | object         | Search only inside given circle


### Search 'kamppi', return only one result

```
curl "http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/search?text=kamppi&size=1"
```

### Restrict searches to given rectangle

```
curl "http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/search?text=kamppi&boundary.rect.min_lat=59.9&boundary.rect.max_lat=60.45&boundary.rect.min_lon=24.3&boundary.rect.max_lon=25.5"
```

### Search inside rectangle

```
curl "http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/search?text=kamppi&boundary.circle.lat=60.2&boundary.circle.lon=24.936&boundary.circle.radius=30"
```

### Extra documentation

Geocoding API is implemented using Pelias. If you are interested, you can learn more about Pelias search API from:

> https://github.com/pelias/pelias-doc/blob/master/search.md

Commit message:

Document the usage of lang parameter for reverse and normal geocoding

pages/en/developers/services-and-apis/2-geocoding-api/address-search/index.md, after:

---
title: Address search
---

Address search can be used to search addresses and place names. Duh.

<!--
## Address search APIs

Address search can be done using either **Autocomplete API** or **Search API**

Autocomplete API is lighter and it's designed for "autocomplete" style searches. Search API has more search parameters available.

### Which one should I use?

If you need to limit your searches to some area, use Search API. If you don't want to limit searches to some area, use Autocomplete API.

## Autocomplete API
Autocomplete API can be used to make fuzzy searches e.g. when the user starts typing location into a search field. API is available at:

> http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/autocomplete

Search for kamppi:
```
curl "http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/autocomplete?text=kampp"
```

### Focus Autocomple API responses around given point

Search focus point boosts addresses found near the given focus point.

You can use focus.point-params like so:
```
curl "http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/autocomplete?text=kamppi&focus.point.lat=60.1995&focus.point.lon=24.9363"
```

To Read more about Pelias autocomplete API, check:
> https://github.com/pelias/pelias-doc/blob/master/autocomplete.md

-->

### Search API
Search API provides a way query addresses and POIs (points of interest). API is available at:

> http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/search

Supported url parameters:
| Parameter       | Type           | Description                                              |
|-----------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| text            | string         | Text to be searched
| size            | int            | How many results to return
| boundary.rect   | object         | Search only inside given rectangle
| boundary.cirlce | object         | Search only inside given circle
| lang            | string         | Language preference 'fi' or 'sv'.


### Search 'kamppi', return only one result

```
curl "http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/search?text=kamppi&size=1"
```

### Restrict searches to given rectangle

```
curl "http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/search?text=kamppi&boundary.rect.min_lat=59.9&boundary.rect.max_lat=60.45&boundary.rect.min_lon=24.3&boundary.rect.max_lon=25.5"
```

### Search inside rectangle

```
curl "http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/search?text=kamppi&boundary.circle.lat=60.2&boundary.circle.lon=24.936&boundary.circle.radius=30"
```

### Language preference

The language preference can be defined using 'lang=xx' parameter, default being 'lang=fi'. Unlike in reverse
geocoding, the preference has significance for geocoding searches only when multiple languages provide
an equally good match. An example:

http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/search?text=finlandia&lang=sv&size=1

http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/search?text=finlandia&lang=fi&size=1

The first search returns Finladia-huset, Helsingfors, and the second one Finlandia-talo, Helsinki.
Both match the search string 'finlandia' equally well.

In most cases, an identified best match defines the language for the response, overruling the preference. An example:

http://api.digitransit.fi/geocoding/v1/search?text=ulrikasborg&lang=fi

In this case, the search string matches perfectly a swedish place name, and consiquently the result is
"Ulrikasborg, Helsingfors". In other words, the geocoding API does not act like a translation service.

Note, that part of the provided geocoding data does not include Swedish names, and part of the data
leaves the language context unknown. This may occasionally cause unexpected errors in language selection.


### Extra documentation

Geocoding API is implemented using Pelias. If you are interested, you can learn more about Pelias search API from:

> https://github.com/pelias/pelias-doc/blob/master/search.md
